# Bitmaps and Vectors
## bitmap graphics
> - Bitmaps are images represented as grids of pixels, scalable down only. Also known as raster graphics. Common file types include .jpg, .bmp, .png, .tiff, and .gif.
## vector graphics
> - Vector images are images represented with mathematical linear equations ($y=mx+c$).
> - Most common file types are .pdf and .svg.
> - Most commonly used for logos, advertisements, and graphic design.


## compression
> - run-length encoding: if there's a long row of colours, computers add a run-length byte at the beginning of that long string that says how many pixels after it have the same colour. A compression technique that has this characteristic is called lossless compression, because nothing is lost. It can be restored fully.
> - Huffman trees: binary trees used for data compression. They assign shorter codes to more frequent symbols and longer codes to less frequent ones, resulting in an optimal prefix code with minimal total bit length. Also lossless. Final output is a dictionary (aka HashMap)
> - Lossy compression: Because humans cant hear ultrasound it gets discarded, and the vocal range is prioritised. This happens to an extreme over phone calls, which is why you sound different on a call.


## lossy vs lossless
> - Lossy compression compresses data by removing as much data as possible. However, it cant be restored
> - Lossless compression uses methods like run-length encoding and Huffman trees, it doesnt remove as much size but it can be fully restored.